# Unit 5 Machine Learning 

**learning**
- learning donotes changes in the system thatare adaptive iun the snese that they enable the system to do the sam etask more effectively the next time.

**Machine Learning **
- Machine learning is about extracting knowledge from the data. 
- is a subfield of AI, which enables machine sto learn from past data or expreiences wiothpout being explicitly prgrammed 
- two concept of machine learning
 1. Supervised
 2. Unsupervised 

**Supervised Learning**
- agent observes some example input–output pairs and learns a function that maps from input to output. 
- The task of supervised learning is this:
      Given a training set of N example input–output pairs
        (x1, y1), (x2, y2), . . . (xN, yN) ,
  where each yj was generated by an unknown function y = f(x), discover a function h that approximates the true function f.
  Here x and y can be any value; they need not be numbers. The function h is a hypothesis
- Learning is a search through the space of possible hypotheses for one that will perform well, even on new examples beyond the training set.
- in supervised learning, an AI systyem is presented with data which is labled
- goal is to approximate the mapping function so well taht when we have a new input data(x) that we can predict the ouput variable(y) for that data
- A model is prepared through a training process in which it is required to make predictions and is corrected when those predictions are wrong. The training process continues until the model achieves a desired level of accuracy on the training data .
- is called supervised learning because the process of an algorithm learning from the training dataset can be thought of as a teacher supervising the learning process.
- types of supervised learning 
 - classifciaiton
 - Regression 

**Unsupervised Lerning**
- agent learns patterns in the input even though no explicit feedback is supplied.
- The most common unsupervised learning task is clustering: detecting potentially useful clusters of input examples.
- For example, a taxi agent might gradually develop a concept of “good traffic days” and “bad traffic days” without ever being given labeled examples of each by a teacher.
- here an AI system is presented with unlabeled, uncategorized data and the system's algorithms actt on the data prior training.
- output is dependent upon the coded algorithms 
- types 
 - clustering
 - Associations 

**Reinforcement learning**
- the agent learns from a series of reinforcements—rewards or punishments.
- An agent can learn from success and failure, from reward and punishment.
- Method aims at using observations gathered from the interaction with the environment to take actions that would maximize the reward or minimize the risk
- Reinforcement learning algorithm (called the agent) continuously learns from the environment in an iterative fashion. In the process, the agent learns from its experiences of the environment until it explores the full range of possible states.
- It is a type of dynamic programming that trains algorithms using a system of reward and punishment.

**Linear Regression anmd classification**
- the class of linear functions of continuous-valued inputs. We’ll start with the simplest case: regression with a univariate linear function, otherwise known as “fitting a straight line.”
**Univariate linear regression**
- has the form y=w1x+w0 where w0 and w1 are real-valued coefficients to be learned 
- we use the letter w beacuse we thiknk of the coefficients as weights;
   **Gradient descent**
**Ensemble learning**
- the idea is to select acollection or ensembnle of hypotheses, h1,h2,......,hn and combine their predictions by averaging, voting or by another level of machine learning
- we call individual hypotheses base model and their combinaiton an ensemble model 
- ensemble can be more expensive and thgus have less bais, than the base model

**Naive bayes models**
- most common model used in machine learning
- the “class” variable C (which is to be predicted) is the root and the “attribute” variables X i are the leaves.
